In this section, we are going to begin creating a new plugin.
A long time ago I promised we would develop a block with WordPress as recommended structure for a block.
WordPress strongly advocates for one block per plugin.
The plugin we've been developing breaks this practice, which is perfectly fine.
It's not uncommon for plugins to add multiple blocks to a site for a demonstration purposes.
I want to show you how to develop a single block for a plugin.
After we're finished developing a block, we will submit this plugin to the official WordPress repository.
The WordPress community will be able to freely install our block onto their site.
It will be a lot of fun.
So let's get started.
Our first step is to create a new plugin.
Let's try using the Create BLOCK package to help us create a new plugin for block development.
In your editor, open the command line.
Let's write the following command now ex at WordPress slash create block alert box namespace you plus.
This command is mostly familiar to us.
We're constructing NPM to temporarily install and execute the create block package.
This package will scaffold a plugin for us.
The name of the plugin will be called Alert Box.
I'm introducing a new option called namespace.
The namespace option will configure the namespace for our block.
This plugin will occupy the same namespace as our original plugin.
Let's run this command.
After a few seconds, a new directory has been created called Alert Box.
Let's make some adjustments to the new plugin.
First, let's start with the main plugin file.
The package will generate a file header.
Most of these values are fine except for the description and author.
Let's set the description to the following.
Add an alert box to output important information to the reader.
Next, let's set the author field to our name.
Everything else in this file is fine.
Let's take a moment to explore this file at the bottom of the file, a function called UE plus alert
box lock in it, we'll register a block.
This function is executed during the init hook.
Overall, we have a simple plug in file.
Before moving on to the script files, let's update the package file.
And this file we are going to update the description and author fields.
The values for these fields will have the same values as the fields from the file header in the main
plugin file.
Let's copy them over to this file.
Great.
This step is optional.
However, we are going to publish this plug into the official WordPress plugin repository.
These details matter as much as the code for the block.
Otherwise, our plugin may get rejected.
We can move on to preparing the other files in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to a list of starter files.
I want you to update the respective files with the code from this gist.
In total, there are four files.
You can find them in the source directory of our project.
Pause the video and good luck.
Welcome back.
Hopefully you are able to update the files in our project.
The code for the block can be found in the source directory.
WordPress will outsource the edit and save functions into separate files.
The functions from each file or imported into the index file.
This file contains the block registration.
Let's go through the files together.
Starting with the block file.
We have a typical configuration file for our block.
This block has four attributes for storing the content of the block an icon, background color and text
color.
Next, let's move on to the edit JS file.
Inside this file, I removed most of the comments from the original edit file.
The comments contain information on the various components and functions imported into the file.
They're great for beginners, however, they are not necessary.
It's up to you if you would like to keep them around.
The most notable piece of code in this file is inside.
The inspector controls components inside this component.
We're using the panel color settings block to add color options to the block.
While this component is not new to us.
It's been a while since we've added this component to our blocks.
This component provides a UI for modifying multiple colors.
In this example, the component will modify the BG color and text color attributes.
Other than that, there's nothing else worth saying about this block.
It's a very simple block.
The block will render content with an icon.
Let's move on to the saved JS file.
This file is very similar to the edit JS file, but without the sidebar content.
The last file is called style.
Since we haven't had the opportunity to talk about Sass and the next lecture, we'll dive into this
file.
For now, let's try building the block behind the scenes.
The Create BLOCK package will prepare the WP Scripts package for our plugin.
We can skip the step of adding this package before running the command.
Our editors are not pointed to the plugin.
I'm going to quickly point my editor to the Alert Box plugin.
After making those changes, we can build the project.
The command is the same as before and the command line run the NPM run start command.
The command line will produce a successful result.
One last thing let's activate the plugin from the admin dashboard in the browser.
Navigate to the plugins page.
Next, activate the alert box.
Plug in.
The plugin will activate without throwing an error.
Perfect.
In the next lecture we will begin working on the block.